During the ceremony, we clasp our hands and recite the
sacred name of the Buddha, praying for his protection.
Namo
Buddha, our original teacher
Shakyamuni.
Namo Buddha, our original teacher
So today, our esteemed fellow practitioners
have
experienced a little bit of
calming our minds, haven't we?
Usually, we just go out and
meditate, right?  Today we're
going for a walking meditation, but our walking meditation
has a specific place for our mind to focus.
So, when we focus our minds,
and we have a place to focus our minds on,
only then can we begin to perceive the
arising of delusive thoughts,
right?  Just like the surface of the water, when the sun has
risen, when it has risen, when it has risen, when it has
risen, only then can we look down and
see our reflection.
Dear fellow practitioners,
we must focus our minds on the sun, not letting our thoughts wander. Only then can
we begin to recognize
our deluded thoughts and arising intentions.
From the moment we recognize them,
we begin to pick
them up, discerning what is good and what is evil, right,
dear fellow practitioners?
Practice silence, live a battle with your inner self.
Once we develop that habit, we'll say
what needs to be said and not
say what doesn't need to be said, and our minds will
be more peaceful.  Isn't that right,
fellow practitioners?
That is the purpose of our practice
.  That's it, practicing Buddhism means seeking liberation, but
liberation depends on circumstances.  Those who live at home are
freed from the worries and troubles of
living at home.  What is the ultimate goal of those who become monks or nuns, to
escape all the bonds of worldly attachments
?  Of the mind.  Dear fellow practitioners.  As for
those who live at home, they must first free themselves from
the troubles that their surroundings bring upon
them.  We
walk slowly and steadily, but every step we take yields
results, my esteemed friends
.  This is a theory that can be put into practice, and
it's quite a problem.
And the process of spiritual practice for those
who want to reach the
ultimate goal of eliminating all deluded
thoughts is like a surface of water
that no longer has a single ripple. Only when
we can see and pick out all those deluded thoughts can we achieve
complete clarity. This requires the karmic condition of
becoming a monk or nun, my esteemed fellow practitioners.  If
we don't renounce the world, we will still be bound by those ties that
pull us along, like the
waves still crashing against us.  My dear fellow practitioners, Yen
said that to let us know how much
we respect those who have renounced worldly life,
right?
The more I practice Buddhism, the more I respect those who have renounced worldly life
.  The more respect we have for those who have renounced worldly life,
my esteemed fellow practitioners.
I only spent a day,
two days, or half a day in quiet contemplation, and I already felt
my mind become much more at ease, didn't I, dear fellow
practitioners?  Today, the esteemed fellow practitioners turned in silence
.  Did any of you esteemed fellow practitioners
notice this?  Did you notice that the
flow of mental energy is directed outwards?
Did you find out?
Is it a continuous outward direction?  Continuous.
So now, Yen is asking for the opinions of fellow practitioners
to see if there are any questions or concerns regarding
our walking meditation practice.  If you have any
suggestions, please raise your hand.   I
respectfully address you, teacher.  YES.  I respectfully request your guidance, teacher
.  YES.  While I was meditating,
walking from the foot of the mountain up to the top,
a fellow practitioner—that is, as I was
walking on the ground—reminded me, "
Why aren't you walking barefoot? Why aren't you
wearing sandals?" At that moment, I
intended to answer, but then I remembered
my teacher's instruction: "No, I
shouldn't speak." Because I was following her teachings, I continued walking, and with each step, I counted my steps. I respectfully asked my teacher, "Is that correct?"
Yes.  Is that correct?  Also,
while I was descending the mountain and
meditating around the
area where I was assigned,
that was just my own
personal mindfulness.  Normally, when you
walk, you walk freely, but
then you start to feel and
perceive, through practice, that is, when you
walk, you notice short steps, long steps, high steps,
low steps.  When I practice according to
your instructions, it means taking four
steps.  That means taking three steps, then
bringing your feet together, and then taking another step.  I
find that the first state of mind is more peaceful.
Stepping means that the body and mind feel in
harmony.  And when I started
meditating...  While meditating, I
also
contemplate the Buddha.  Then the
child contemplates the teacher and the female teacher.  I am
grateful to you, I am grateful to my master, and I
feel that our teachings are truly
very fortunate.  Because when I
met her, and received her guidance and encouragement,
I changed my career path within the
first three days.  And from that moment onward
until the day of enlightenment, I knew very clearly
that in this lifetime I would have to
cultivate enough auspicious conditions to attain the path of
monastic life.
While I was meditating,
those images kept coming back to me
.
So, I respectfully ask you, teacher, to examine my meditative practices to see if there is anything
wrong
or problematic about them.
Oh, thank you very much.  It so happened that we
had a chance encounter the last time we talked
on the phone when he was facing a
very difficult family situation
.  So, you said that after 3 days of
performing the ritual, you would be transformed.  That
's an old story, you know.  And what if, while
I'm walking like that, someone asks me that question and
I don't answer? That's perfectly fine, okay?
Not answering is correct.  If anyone
asks that question, it's incorrect.  Losing
mindfulness means losing sight of the object of one's practice
.  There.  And another thing is that when going uphill,
you'll notice that, especially in the morning, after
taking three steps, you have to press your feet together
to rest.  That's exactly right, because with
mindfulness, my body feels less
tired and my mind is more at peace.
That leads to mindfulness and awareness, which in turn
leads to a lean body and a peaceful mind.  As
for the meditation part,
this afternoon Yen instructed everyone to
contemplate the sentence that everyone had
written down.  Then you can just think about the
aspect of gratitude.  That can
also give rise to noble kindness
towards the Three Jewels and towards
those who have benefited you,
but the topic we discussed
this afternoon is still unfulfilled.  Therefore, we need to
add another topic to this afternoon's discussion.  Why did Yen
say that the topic for the cafe this afternoon was up
for grabs?  Because the meditation topic this afternoon is
also very important for
my diligent practice.  Because that is the origin of
the Bodhi mind.  Therefore, I usually
know what I'm doing.  I am observing mindfulness,
I am meditating to discover the mind,
I am transforming and severing
this mind.  So, let's focus our minds on the aspiration
for the Buddha's teachings to endure in the world for a long time.
That's a very important aspect of the mind, a
compassionate mind, my esteemed fellow practitioners.  Therefore,
we must focus our minds on it so that it may
arise and grow.  And if
anyone else has an opinion, please raise your hand.
During my journey from the foot of the mountain
up, I was carrying quite a lot of heavy supplies,
but in my heart, I
remembered that my teacher had taught me to be
self-sufficient, so I bought
a little bit of everything I needed, with the intention of
not bothering those who were
helping me.  During the journey, as I got
closer to my destination, the weight became heavy, and that's when I
started to think, "
Normally, the masters let go of everything,
but I'm still clinging to attachment and attachment."
But now, when things get this heavy, you
shouldn't think about how tired you are. Instead, you
should think of this as
your karma, just like how
you cling to things in this world every day. Then you should
gradually practice letting go and letting go.  So
I stopped thinking about being tired and just
followed her steps. When I
arrived, I happily did the
tasks at the altar. That was the
first task I asked her to guide me on, to
see if my thinking was correct
.  And during my afternoon
meditation, I
saw some people walking barefoot, and it
made me think, "Why don't I walk
barefoot too, so I can be like the monks
practicing?"  Then, if you come back, it's
not up to fate.  Today, she only taught us to
walk and pay attention to our footsteps.  I
started wondering again whether I should step with my right foot, landing on my heel
first or my toes first.  I
just focused on that.  After a while, the
thought arose again, "Well,
after a while, I had another thought: now
I'll think about what she said about
compassion."  Then I thought to myself, "
Now she's just teaching me not to think, just to be
present in my footsteps."  The child
continued counting steps and paying attention to whether the
right foot stepped first, the heel landing first, or the
toes landing first.  After a while, the
thought arose that I was
so happy to be home today, given how much work
I had to do at home.   I am
grateful to my husband and children, and thankful to
everyone who has supported me.  Then
I thought, "Yeah, this way of thinking is great,
but I'll think about it later when I'm
meditating."  This now rests on the
footsteps.  Then there were sounds from below the mountain, the
sound of a car, then some noise, and I
turned back to myself, not looking
down, not looking outwards,
focusing on my footsteps.  But
sometimes things get confused, so I think my left foot
is my right foot.  But then, during the
first 15 minutes, eight
thoughts arose.  And when I sat in
meditation, I thought in the direction that my
teacher said about cultivating a compassionate mind. I also
thought that a
compassionate mind, as my teacher said, must eliminate
unwholesome thoughts
and then cultivate wholesome thoughts to develop the Dharma. Then
I reflected on
my actions in the school environment, where
I sometimes feel troubled by the students.  Then
I go back and check if I was right
, if I set a good example, and if I
guided the students carefully.  Then, when
interacting with my family, at first
I was scared, just like the person sitting here earlier, and
didn't dare talk to my parents. But
after being guided and instructed by the teacher, I
became joyful and went down to practice the virtuous
deeds.  I rarely talked to my
parents, and I often interrupted them when they spoke,
but gradually I've learned to do that myself.
But I still find that
sometimes I react negatively to things my
parents say, and it affects my health. I
still try to dissuade my father, and he talks a lot about it.
I told him that today I'm going home to practice meditation for three days, to practice the
Dharma of silence. I'll go
home and practice that with my parents. And
then I think about my husband's past.
Before I knew about
Buddhism, I had negative thoughts and resentment
towards him. I ask you, Venerable
Master, if that's how I think,
please guide me. Yes.
Any thought that goes beyond the intended purpose is ultimately
futile and pointless.  Is this clear to you
?  Even before considering whether it's right or wrong, if it's
outside the main topic, it means we've already been thrown off
track.  Can you see this clearly now?
Everyone, please remember this place.  All thoughts,
whether good or bad, that are outside the object of focus
belong to the realm of being thrown away from that
place.  That's the first point.  Secondly,
if you've already been drawn in by that illusion,
meaning you were just being drawn in by a good illusion, whether
good or evil, it's still pulling you
too far, right?  There's the longing for
happiness, then thinking about husband
and children—that's exactly like
that boy over there, dragging you along until you have children,
dragging you along until you're completely taken away, right,
dear fellow practitioners?
Not to mention good or evil,
even good is dragged along, dragged along
endlessly until you realize it, and then you're completely
swept away, dear fellow practitioners. And that's
not even counting the thoughts of good versus
evil; you should abandon evil thoughts and embrace good ones.
But right now we are so
focused that we've been pulled away by the thoughts
.  It might have dragged you around until you were covered in scratches
.  It got to the point where they had to put their legs in casts,
and we're not even going to consider whether it was right or wrong yet.  Can you see
them clearly here?  Remember that.  The main
topic of study is to be mistaken about the topic.  Anything
outside the scope of the topic has caused harm, regardless of whether it was
good or evil.  That has caused
injury.  That means we've been electrocuted.
So, it's clear that writing like that has led
us astray.  And when we
practice walking meditation, we see that
we can only be like this.  Let's examine
how many good thoughts and how many
bad thoughts we have in our minds.  But if you have a
strange thought, then it's a good thing, my friends.  The mindset is certainly
right in terms of goodness,
but it's not yet appropriate for the practice of
spiritual cultivation.
Homage to the Buddha Shakyamuni.  I
respectfully address you, Auntie, and all fellow practitioners.
Regarding meditation practice, I have gained a
much clearer understanding through the questions from fellow
practitioners and the answers from you, teacher.  And,
Venerable Nun, I would like to ask about
meditation. When I contemplate
my unwholesome actions, do I then have
thoughts about eliminating those
unwholesome thoughts?
I can think clearly with friends, especially fellow practitioners, but when it
comes to family members who
don't really understand Buddhism,
or even my husband and children, I
suddenly feel sleepy.  The child fell asleep
and then suddenly woke up.  The child said
he was dead.  After waking up, the child shifted
positions to help himself become more alert.  But just
think about how to sever negative feelings towards your
loved ones.  My child is feeling sleepy all the time at home
.  I would like to ask for your guidance, teacher.
Because today's meditation topic isn't
about eliminating unwholesome thoughts towards
loved ones.
Does everyone remember?  I've forgotten the title of the question
.  Today's assignment is solely about
that one thing.  The restaurant has a menu,
though.  Do you all understand this point?  As
for the other matter, that's a private one.  For example, how do we practice
meditation on certain days, or how do
we deal with negative thoughts that arise in our minds?
Well, this isn't
exactly what we're discussing in today's lesson
.  However, Yen
shared with everyone that when you have
negative thoughts towards someone, you shouldn't think
that you can transform them by simply visualizing them in a positive light. Instead,
you must think about and perform
positive actions towards them in order to
change their state.  Have you all understood
this point?  For example, if someone insults
you, just say, "Well, I love
that person, I want to do this for them, but I
can't do that."  That's just the
initial intention.  But if we keep talking about
love, keep saying "I love you," it
becomes empty and meaningless, and that's not right.  But what is it?
I have to confront love.
Do you all understand this point, fellow practitioners?  If someone has
already treated you badly, and tomorrow you
hear them insult you
again, how do you handle it?
That's how the restaurant operates.  But if it
's someone nearby, then we have to confront
the act of love.  Have any of you fellow practitioners understood
this point yet?  For example, if something about your husband
annoys you, you need to take
specific action and respond in a specific way
.  Have you all understood
this point?  If we cannot
contemplate from that very spot, from the moment
we are sitting there,
without taking concrete action, then
how can we practice the Dharma?  It must be done through action, both body,
speech, and mind.  Isn't that right, fellow practitioners?  It
means that we think, we think that we
will be like this, we will treat that person this way.   You
need a method for deciding what to say and what to do with your body.
It's not about loving someone based solely on your
thoughts.  Love must be
expressed through actions to truly be genuine
.
[Music]
[Applause]